README.md, before:

NHL API
=========

An (unofficial, read-only) API for nhl.com and other online resources related to the National Hockey League.

### Table of Contents
* [Background Information](#background-information)
* [API Usage](#api-usage)
* [Features](#features)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

# Background Information

The NHL has an internal API that they don't release to the public. However, it's somewhat exposed, and this unofficial API leverages
this in order to create a cohesive solution with consistent endpoints. There's also a fair bit of data sanitization involved because
over the years the NHL has randomly made changes to their json formatting of various things, and sometimes their stuff just doesn't work.
Hopefully, this will allow developers to leverage the NHL's data without needing to do a bunch of trial and error. Big ups to 
[this guy from the hf boards](http://hfboards.hockeysfuture.com/showthread.php?t=1596119) for a bunch of network traffic analysis and 
endpoint discovery.

There are also some notable details about how this API is structured. Assigned to each game is a "game_id". The things that happen during a game (goals, saves, hits) are called events. Assigned to each event is an "ext_id". 

# API Usage
### API Base URL: `http://nhlapi.nickoman.me`

## Endpoints Summary

* Team
	* GET: [`/<team>/roster`](#get-teamroster)
	* GET: [`/<team>/stats/<season>/<form>`](#get-teamstats)
	* GET: [`/<team>/games/<season>/<month>`](#get-teamgamesseasonmonth)
	* GET: [`/<team>/logo/`](#get-teamlogo)
* Events
	* GET: [`/events/<season>/<game_id>`](#get-eventsseasongame_id)
	* GET: [`/events/<ext_id>`](#get-eventsext_id)
	* GET: [`/videos/<ext_id>`](#get-videosext_id)
* Misc
	* GET: [`/images/<name>`](#get-imagesname)


### GET: `/<team>/roster`

Gets the roster from the given team. Includes all sorts of details on the players that are not statistics.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/roster`

Result:
```json
"timestamp":"Fri Apr 15 20:43:22 EDT 2016",
"goalie":[
	{
		"position":"Goalie",
		"id":8475883,
		"twitterURL":"https://twitter.com/f_andersen30",
		"weight":220,
		"height":"6' 4\"",
		"imageUrl":"http://3.cdn.nhle.com/photos/mugs/8475883.jpg",
		"birthplace":"Herning, DNK",
		"twitterHandle":"f_andersen30",
		"age":26,
		"name":"Frederik Andersen",
		"birthdate":"October 02, 1989",
		"number":31
	},
```


### GET: `/<team>/stats/<season>/<form>`

Gets all of the statistics for the players from the given team during the given season. Uses 'form' to denote either regular season (2) or playoffs (3). Skater and Goalie statlines are formatted as follows, respectively:

```
#, POS, NAME, GP, G, A, P, +/-, PIM, S, TOI/G, PP, SH, GWG, OT
```
```
#, POS, NAME, GP, W, L, OT, GA, SA, Sv, SV%, GAA, SO, PIM, Min
```
#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/stats/20142015/2`

Result (only partial due to length):
```json

"skaterHighlight":7,
"timestamp":"Mon Jun 30 23:51:01 EDT 2014",
"skaterData":[
	{
		"id":8470612,
		"data":"15, C, R. Getzlaf, 77, 31, 56, 87, 28, 31, 204, 21:17, 5, 0, 7, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8470621,
		"data":"10, R, C. Perry, 81, 43, 39, 82, 32, 65, 280, 19:28, 8, 0, 9, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8474009,
		"data":"13, C, N. Bonino, 77, 22, 27, 49, 14, 22, 159, 16:13, 7, 0, 2, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8473618,
		"data":"22, C, M. Perreault, 69, 18, 25, 43, 13, 36, 120, 13:52, 4, 0, 1, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8471699,
		"data":"7, C, A. Cogliano, 82, 21, 21, 42, 13, 26, 157, 15:23, 0, 3, 5, 0"
	},
	{
		"id":8475764,
		"data":"4, D, C. Fowler, 70, 6, 30, 36, 15, 14, 100, 23:51, 4, 1, 2, 0"
	},

```

### GET: `/<team>/games/<season>/<month>`

Gets the game_ids for the games in a team's given month of a given season. Pass 0 as the month to get
game_ids from the whole year.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/MIN/games/20142015/0`

Result:
```json
{"games": ["2014010087", "2014010101", "2014020014", "2014020029", "2014020062", "2014020074", "2014020097", "2014020114", "2014020122",
 "2014020124", "2014020145", "2014020162", "2014020179", "2014020189", "2014020205", "2014020220", "2014020238", "2014020249", "2014020261",
 "2014020280", "2014020298", "2014020315", "2014020329", "2014020343", "2014020351", "2014020372", "2014020387", "2014020415", "2014020430",
 "2014020444", "2014020461", "2014020465", "2014020488", "2014020507", "2014020520", "2014020536", "2014020549", "2014020562", "2014020572",
 "2014020588", "2014020603", "2014020614", "2014020625", "2014020633", "2014020645", "2014020669", "2014020680", "2014020687", "2014020706",
 "2014020719", "2014020741", "2014020752", "2014020780", "2014020794", "2014020805", "2014020815", "2014020828", "2014020844", "2014020855",
 "2014020872", "2014020891", "2014020901", "2014020913", "2014020930", "2014020947", "2014020958", "2014020965", "2014020982", "2014020997",
 "2014021016", "2014021026", "2014021045", "2014021057", "2014021066", "2014021085", "2014021090", "2014021112", "2014021125", "2014021159",
 "2014021175", "2014021187", "2014021196", "2014021209", "2014021226", "2014030151", "2014030152", "2014030153", "2014030154", "2014030155",
 "2014030156", "2014030231", "2014030232", "2014030233", "2014030234", "2014010016", "2014010040", "2014010053", "2014010066"]}
```

### GET: `/<team>/logo`

Gets the logo for the given team as a very nice .svg

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/logo`

Result:
```
A nice .svg
```

### GET: `/events/<season>/<game_id>`

Gets the ext_ids for events from a game_id during a given season.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/events/20142015/2014010087`

Result:
```json
{"events": ["2014020280-466-h", "2014020280-466-a", "2014020280-59-h", "2014020280-59-a", "2014020280-712-h", "2014020280-712-a", "2014020280-99-h",
"2014020280-99-a", "2014020280-338-h", "2014020280-338-a", "2014020280-490-h", "2014020280-490-a", "2014020280-91-h", "2014020280-91-a",
"2014020280-311-h", "2014020280-311-a", "2014020280-453-h", "2014020280-453-a", "2014020280-54-h", "2014020280-54-a", "2014020280-473-h",
"2014020280-473-a", "2014020280-79-h", "2014020280-79-a", "2014020280-230-h", "2014020280-230-a", "2014020280-344-h", "2014020280-344-a",
"2014020280-58-h", "2014020280-58-a", "2014020280-705-h", "2014020280-705-a", "2014020280-96-h", "2014020280-96-a", "2014020280-337-h",
"2014020280-337-a", "2014020280-461-h", "2014020280-461-a", "2014020280-487-h", "2014020280-487-a", "2014020280-90-h", "2014020280-90-a",
"2014020280-240-h", "2014020280-240-a", "2014020280-405-h", "2014020280-405-a", "2014020280-5-h", "2014020280-5-a", "2014020280-469-h",
"2014020280-469-a", "2014020280-75-h", "2014020280-75-a", "2014020280-214-h", "2014020280-214-a", "2014020280-341-h", "2014020280-341-a",
"2014020280-56-h", "2014020280-56-a", "2014020280-498-h", "2014020280-498-a", "2014020280-94-h", "2014020280-94-a", "2014020280-331-h",
"2014020280-331-a", "2014020280-457-h", "2014020280-457-a", "2014020280-481-h", "2014020280-481-a", "2014020280-85-h", "2014020280-85-a","2014020280-236-h", "2014020280-236-a", "2014020280-349-h", "2014020280-349-a"]}
```

### GET: `/events/<ext_id>`

Gets the details of an event associated with the given ext_id.

#### Example
Usage: `Get http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/events/2014020280-341-h`

Result:
```json
[{
	"shareable": true, 
	"trackName": "Darcy Kuemper Save on Brayden Schenn (15:31/2nd)", 
	"publishPoint": "http://e1.cdnak.neulion.com/nhl/vod/2014/11/20/280/2_280_min_phi_1415_h_discrete_phi341_save_1_1600.mp4?eid=677090&pid=677629gid=3000&pt=1", 
	"formats": "0", "releaseDate": "2014-11-20T19:00:00.000",
	"image": "www/thumbs/2014/11/20/677629_es.jpg",
	"id": "2014020280-341-h",
	"runtime": "0:16",
	"duration": "16",
	"name":  "Darcy Kuemper Save on Brayden Schenn (15:31/2nd)", "bigImage": "www/thumbs/2014/11/20/677629_eb.jpg", "description": "Home broadcast -Minnesota Wild at Philadelphia Flyers - November 20, 2014"
}]
```

### GET: `/videos/<ext_id>`

Gets the URL to the highlight video associated with the given ext_id. You may notice this link is the same as the "publishPoint" in the above response. This is true, and you can also get it that way, but I felt highlight videos were important enough to deserve their own endpoint.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/videos/2014020280-341-h`

Result:
```
http://e1.cdnak.neulion.com/nhl/vod/2014/11/20/280/2_280_min_phi_1415_h_discrete_phi341_save_1_1600.mp4?eid=677090&pid=677629&gid=3000&pt=1
```

### GET: `/images/<name>/`

Gets a link to a 400x400 player headshot. To return a player's image, the name has to be formatted properly. Use the following rules:
* Replace any spaces with a hyphen (-)
* Replace any apostrophes (') or periods (.) with nothing ('')

For example, Ryan O'Reilly becomes ryan-oreilly

In some cases, such as Colorado's Erik Johnson, a player will have a common enough name that it is shared. In that case, you should append a `'-<id>'` to the player's name. This id can be found from the player's bio url on (tsn.ca)[http://tsn.ca]. Erik Johnson's id is 40755.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/images/john-scott`

Result:
```
http://tsnimages.tsn.ca/ImageProvider/PlayerHeadshot?seoId=sidney-crosby
```

# Features
### Currently implemented
* Game Schedules (game_ids)
* Events         (event_ids)
* Video Highlight URLs
* Player Images

### Todo
* Team Statistics
* Player Statistics

# Installation
You will need [Python 2](https://www.python.org/download/). [pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installing.html) is recommended for installing dependencies.

To run the API locally:
```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ python app.py
```

# Contributing
Submit pull requests or issues whenever you'd like!

Commit message:

updated readme with range of use

README.md, after:

NHL API
=========

An (unofficial, read-only) API for nhl.com and other online resources related to the National Hockey League.

### Table of Contents
* [Background Information](#background-information)
* [API Usage](#api-usage)
* [Features](#features)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

# Background Information

The NHL has an internal API that they don't release to the public. However, it's somewhat exposed, and this unofficial API leverages
this in order to create a cohesive solution with consistent endpoints. There's also a fair bit of data sanitization involved because
over the years the NHL has randomly made changes to their json formatting of various things, and sometimes their stuff just doesn't work.
Hopefully, this will allow developers to leverage the NHL's data without needing to do a bunch of trial and error. Big ups to 
[this guy from the hf boards](http://hfboards.hockeysfuture.com/showthread.php?t=1596119) for a bunch of network traffic analysis and 
endpoint discovery.

There are also some notable details about how this API is structured. Assigned to each game is a "game_id". The things that happen during a game (goals, saves, hits) are called events. Assigned to each event is an "ext_id". 

Finally, it's important to know the range for which the API can function. To my understanding, due to the MLB's takeover of NHL media, the system that I'm shoehorning onto is no longer in use as of February, 2016. As far as I can tell, it began use at the start of the 2012-2013 season. Any date in between those two times should work. I'm working on trying to find out what the NHL uses currently to serve it's media, but that is proving significantly more difficult. I may wind up employing a screen-scraping option, which, while much slower, would allow for completeness.

# API Usage
### API Base URL: `http://nhlapi.nickoman.me`

## Endpoints Summary

* Team
	* GET: [`/<team>/roster`](#get-teamroster)
	* GET: [`/<team>/stats/<season>/<form>`](#get-teamstats)
	* GET: [`/<team>/games/<season>/<month>`](#get-teamgamesseasonmonth)
	* GET: [`/<team>/logo/`](#get-teamlogo)
* Events
	* GET: [`/events/<season>/<game_id>`](#get-eventsseasongame_id)
	* GET: [`/events/<ext_id>`](#get-eventsext_id)
	* GET: [`/videos/<ext_id>`](#get-videosext_id)
* Misc
	* GET: [`/images/<name>`](#get-imagesname)


### GET: `/<team>/roster`

Gets the roster from the given team. Includes all sorts of details on the players that are not statistics.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/roster`

Result:
```json
"timestamp":"Fri Apr 15 20:43:22 EDT 2016",
"goalie":[
	{
		"position":"Goalie",
		"id":8475883,
		"twitterURL":"https://twitter.com/f_andersen30",
		"weight":220,
		"height":"6' 4\"",
		"imageUrl":"http://3.cdn.nhle.com/photos/mugs/8475883.jpg",
		"birthplace":"Herning, DNK",
		"twitterHandle":"f_andersen30",
		"age":26,
		"name":"Frederik Andersen",
		"birthdate":"October 02, 1989",
		"number":31
	},
```


### GET: `/<team>/stats/<season>/<form>`

Gets all of the statistics for the players from the given team during the given season. Uses 'form' to denote either regular season (2) or playoffs (3). Skater and Goalie statlines are formatted as follows, respectively:

```
#, POS, NAME, GP, G, A, P, +/-, PIM, S, TOI/G, PP, SH, GWG, OT
```
```
#, POS, NAME, GP, W, L, OT, GA, SA, Sv, SV%, GAA, SO, PIM, Min
```
#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/stats/20142015/2`

Result (only partial due to length):
```json

"skaterHighlight":7,
"timestamp":"Mon Jun 30 23:51:01 EDT 2014",
"skaterData":[
	{
		"id":8470612,
		"data":"15, C, R. Getzlaf, 77, 31, 56, 87, 28, 31, 204, 21:17, 5, 0, 7, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8470621,
		"data":"10, R, C. Perry, 81, 43, 39, 82, 32, 65, 280, 19:28, 8, 0, 9, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8474009,
		"data":"13, C, N. Bonino, 77, 22, 27, 49, 14, 22, 159, 16:13, 7, 0, 2, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8473618,
		"data":"22, C, M. Perreault, 69, 18, 25, 43, 13, 36, 120, 13:52, 4, 0, 1, 1"
	},
	{
		"id":8471699,
		"data":"7, C, A. Cogliano, 82, 21, 21, 42, 13, 26, 157, 15:23, 0, 3, 5, 0"
	},
	{
		"id":8475764,
		"data":"4, D, C. Fowler, 70, 6, 30, 36, 15, 14, 100, 23:51, 4, 1, 2, 0"
	},

```

### GET: `/<team>/games/<season>/<month>`

Gets the game_ids for the games in a team's given month of a given season. Pass 0 as the month to get
game_ids from the whole year.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/MIN/games/20142015/0`

Result:
```json
{"games": ["2014010087", "2014010101", "2014020014", "2014020029", "2014020062", "2014020074", "2014020097", "2014020114", "2014020122",
 "2014020124", "2014020145", "2014020162", "2014020179", "2014020189", "2014020205", "2014020220", "2014020238", "2014020249", "2014020261",
 "2014020280", "2014020298", "2014020315", "2014020329", "2014020343", "2014020351", "2014020372", "2014020387", "2014020415", "2014020430",
 "2014020444", "2014020461", "2014020465", "2014020488", "2014020507", "2014020520", "2014020536", "2014020549", "2014020562", "2014020572",
 "2014020588", "2014020603", "2014020614", "2014020625", "2014020633", "2014020645", "2014020669", "2014020680", "2014020687", "2014020706",
 "2014020719", "2014020741", "2014020752", "2014020780", "2014020794", "2014020805", "2014020815", "2014020828", "2014020844", "2014020855",
 "2014020872", "2014020891", "2014020901", "2014020913", "2014020930", "2014020947", "2014020958", "2014020965", "2014020982", "2014020997",
 "2014021016", "2014021026", "2014021045", "2014021057", "2014021066", "2014021085", "2014021090", "2014021112", "2014021125", "2014021159",
 "2014021175", "2014021187", "2014021196", "2014021209", "2014021226", "2014030151", "2014030152", "2014030153", "2014030154", "2014030155",
 "2014030156", "2014030231", "2014030232", "2014030233", "2014030234", "2014010016", "2014010040", "2014010053", "2014010066"]}
```

### GET: `/<team>/logo`

Gets the logo for the given team as a very nice .svg

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/ANA/logo`

Result:
```
A nice .svg
```

### GET: `/events/<season>/<game_id>`

Gets the ext_ids for events from a game_id during a given season.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/events/20142015/2014010087`

Result:
```json
{"events": ["2014020280-466-h", "2014020280-466-a", "2014020280-59-h", "2014020280-59-a", "2014020280-712-h", "2014020280-712-a", "2014020280-99-h",
"2014020280-99-a", "2014020280-338-h", "2014020280-338-a", "2014020280-490-h", "2014020280-490-a", "2014020280-91-h", "2014020280-91-a",
"2014020280-311-h", "2014020280-311-a", "2014020280-453-h", "2014020280-453-a", "2014020280-54-h", "2014020280-54-a", "2014020280-473-h",
"2014020280-473-a", "2014020280-79-h", "2014020280-79-a", "2014020280-230-h", "2014020280-230-a", "2014020280-344-h", "2014020280-344-a",
"2014020280-58-h", "2014020280-58-a", "2014020280-705-h", "2014020280-705-a", "2014020280-96-h", "2014020280-96-a", "2014020280-337-h",
"2014020280-337-a", "2014020280-461-h", "2014020280-461-a", "2014020280-487-h", "2014020280-487-a", "2014020280-90-h", "2014020280-90-a",
"2014020280-240-h", "2014020280-240-a", "2014020280-405-h", "2014020280-405-a", "2014020280-5-h", "2014020280-5-a", "2014020280-469-h",
"2014020280-469-a", "2014020280-75-h", "2014020280-75-a", "2014020280-214-h", "2014020280-214-a", "2014020280-341-h", "2014020280-341-a",
"2014020280-56-h", "2014020280-56-a", "2014020280-498-h", "2014020280-498-a", "2014020280-94-h", "2014020280-94-a", "2014020280-331-h",
"2014020280-331-a", "2014020280-457-h", "2014020280-457-a", "2014020280-481-h", "2014020280-481-a", "2014020280-85-h", "2014020280-85-a","2014020280-236-h", "2014020280-236-a", "2014020280-349-h", "2014020280-349-a"]}
```

### GET: `/events/<ext_id>`

Gets the details of an event associated with the given ext_id.

#### Example
Usage: `Get http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/events/2014020280-341-h`

Result:
```json
[{
	"shareable": true, 
	"trackName": "Darcy Kuemper Save on Brayden Schenn (15:31/2nd)", 
	"publishPoint": "http://e1.cdnak.neulion.com/nhl/vod/2014/11/20/280/2_280_min_phi_1415_h_discrete_phi341_save_1_1600.mp4?eid=677090&pid=677629gid=3000&pt=1", 
	"formats": "0", "releaseDate": "2014-11-20T19:00:00.000",
	"image": "www/thumbs/2014/11/20/677629_es.jpg",
	"id": "2014020280-341-h",
	"runtime": "0:16",
	"duration": "16",
	"name":  "Darcy Kuemper Save on Brayden Schenn (15:31/2nd)", "bigImage": "www/thumbs/2014/11/20/677629_eb.jpg", "description": "Home broadcast -Minnesota Wild at Philadelphia Flyers - November 20, 2014"
}]
```

### GET: `/videos/<ext_id>`

Gets the URL to the highlight video associated with the given ext_id. You may notice this link is the same as the "publishPoint" in the above response. This is true, and you can also get it that way, but I felt highlight videos were important enough to deserve their own endpoint.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/videos/2014020280-341-h`

Result:
```
http://e1.cdnak.neulion.com/nhl/vod/2014/11/20/280/2_280_min_phi_1415_h_discrete_phi341_save_1_1600.mp4?eid=677090&pid=677629&gid=3000&pt=1
```

### GET: `/images/<name>/`

Gets a link to a 400x400 player headshot. To return a player's image, the name has to be formatted properly. Use the following rules:
* Replace any spaces with a hyphen (-)
* Replace any apostrophes (') or periods (.) with nothing ('')

For example, Ryan O'Reilly becomes ryan-oreilly

In some cases, such as Colorado's Erik Johnson, a player will have a common enough name that it is shared. In that case, you should append a `'-<id>'` to the player's name. This id can be found from the player's bio url on (tsn.ca)[http://tsn.ca]. Erik Johnson's id is 40755.

#### Example
Usage: `GET http://nhlapi.nickoman.me/images/john-scott`

Result:
```
http://tsnimages.tsn.ca/ImageProvider/PlayerHeadshot?seoId=sidney-crosby
```

# Features
### Currently implemented
* Game Schedules (game_ids)
* Events         (event_ids)
* Video Highlight URLs
* Player Images

### Todo
* Team Statistics
* Player Statistics

# Installation
You will need [Python 2](https://www.python.org/download/). [pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installing.html) is recommended for installing dependencies.

To run the API locally:
```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ python app.py
```

# Contributing
Submit pull requests or issues whenever you'd like!
